[Vega][Inspect panel] Write tutorials and reference (#73262)
elastic/kibana: docs/visualize/vega.asciidoc

To change this, set `vis_type_vega.enableExternalUrls: true` in `kibana.yml`,
then restart {kib}.

[[vega-inspector]]
==== Vega Inspector
The Inspector is a contextual tool to gain insights into different elements. 
For Vega visualization two different views was implemented: *Request* view and *Vega debug* view.

===== Inspect Elasticsearch requests

Vega visualization uses the {ref}/search-search.html[{es} search API] to get documents and aggregation 
results from {es}.To troubleshoot these requests, open the *Inspector*, which shows the most recent requests. 
In case your specification has more than one request, you can switch between them using the *Request* dropdown.

[role="screenshot"]
image::visualize/images/vega_tutorial_inspect_requests.png[]

> ===== Vega Debugging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
===== Vega debugging
```

> In most cases to debug Vega, we recommend use the *Inspector > Vega debug*. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Currently using this view you can inspect the following runtime data: *Data Sets* and *Signal Values*. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the *Vega debug* view, you can inspect the *Data sets* and *Signal Values* runtime data. 
```

> The data that we visualize on these tabs we read from the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The runtime data is read from the 
```

https://vega.github.io/vega/docs/api/debugging/#scope[runtime scope]. 

[role="screenshot"]
image::visualize/images/vega_tutorial_inspect_data_sets.png[]

> Sometimes to debug more complex specs you need access to the `view` variable.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To debug more complex specs, access to the `view` variable.  For more information, refer to
```

> To debug such cases please see <<vega-browser-debugging-console, Vega browser debugging process>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the <<vega-browser-debugging-console, Vega browser debugging process>>.
```

===== Asking for help with a Vega spec

Because of the dynamic nature of the data in {es}, it is hard to help you with 

> Vega specs unless you can share a dataset. To do this, open the *Inspector > Vega debug* view 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vega specs unless you can share a data set. To do this, open the *Inspector > Vega debug* view 
```

> Vega specs unless you can share a dataset. To do this, open the *Inspector > Vega debug* view 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vega specs unless you can share a dataset. To do this, click *Inspect*, select the *Vega debug* view,
```

> and navigate to *Spec* tab:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
then select the *Spec* tab:
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::visualize/images/vega_tutorial_getting_help.png[]

> To copy the response, click the button "Copy to clipboard". Paste the copied data to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To copy the response, click *Copy to clipboard*. Paste the copied data to 
```

> https://gist.github.com/[gist.github.com], possibly with a .json extension, use the [raw] button, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
https://gist.github.com/[gist.github.com], possibly with a .json extension. Use the [raw] button, 
```
